.\" THE NEMESIS PROJECT
.\" Copyright (C) 1999, 2000 Mark Grimes <mark@stateful.net>
.\" Copyright (C) 2001 - 2003 Jeff Nathan <jeff@snort.org>
.\" Copyright (C) 2019 Joachim Nilsson <troglobit@gmail.com>
.\"
.Dd Dec 16, 2019
.Dt nemesis-rip 1 USM
.Sh NAME
.Nm nemesis-rip
.Nd RIP Protocol (The Nemesis Project)
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl vZ?
.Op Fl a Ar AF
.Op Fl c Ar CMD
.Op Fl d Ar IFNAME
.Op Fl D Ar ADDR
.Op Fl F Ar OPT
.Op Fl h Ar ADDR
.Op Fl H Ar MAC
.Op Fl i Ar ADDR
.Op Fl I Ar ID
.Op Fl k Ar MASK
.Op Fl m Ar METRIC
.Op Fl M Ar MAC
.Op Fl O Ar FILE
.Op Fl P Ar FILE
.Op Fl r Ar DOMAIN
.Op Fl R Ar TAG
.Op Fl S Ar ADDR
.Op Fl t Ar TOS
.Op Fl T Ar TTL
.Op Fl V Ar VER
.Op Fl x Ar PORT
.Op Fl y Ar PORT
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm nemesis
is designed to be a command line-based, portable human IP stack for
UNIX-like and Windows systems.  The suite is broken down by protocol,
and should allow for useful scripting of injected packets from simple
shell scripts.
.Pp
.Nm
provides an interface to craft and inject RIP packets allowing the user
to specify any portion of a RIP packet as well as lower-level IP packet
information.
.Sh RIP Options
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl a Ar AF
Specify the RIP address family within the RIP header.
.Pp
.Sy NOTE:
Under normal conditions, the address-family value is
.Ql 2 ,
indicating IP.
.It Fl c Ar CMD
Specify the RIP command within the RIP header.  Valid RIP commands are:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width D -compact -offset indent
.It 1
Request
.It 2
Reply
.It 3
Trace on - obsolete
.It 4
Trace off - obsolete
.It 5
Poll
.It 6
Poll entry
.It 7
Max
.El
.Pp
.Sy NOTE
Under normal conditions, only commands 1 (Request) and 2 (Reply) are
valid.
.It Fl h Ar ADDR
Specify the RIP next-hop address within the RIP header.  The next hop
address value is 0 for RIP version 1.  For RIP version 2 the next hop
address specifies the IP address of the next route in the path to the
destination host or network.  Also for RIP version 2, if this value is
0, the next hop address is the IP address of the router originating the
RIP update.
.It Fl i Ar ADDR
Specify the RIP route address within the RIP header.  This value species
the destination network, subnet or host of route in the form of an IP
address.
.It Fl k Ar MASK
Specify the RIP network address mask within the RIP header.  The network
address mask value is 0 for RIP version 1.  For RIP version 2 the
network address mask specifies the mask associated with the route.
.It Fl m Ar METRIC
Specify the RIP metric within the RIP header.  Valid RIP-metric values
range from 1 to 16.  A RIP-metric value of 16 (infinity) is used to
invalidate a route.
.It Fl P Ar FILE
This will cause
.Nm
to use the specified payload file as the payload when injecting RIP
packets.  For packets injected using the raw interface (where
.Fl d
is not used), the maximum payload size is 65393 bytes.  For packets
injected using the link layer interface (where
.Fl d
IS used), the maximum payload size is 1358 bytes.  Payloads can also be
read from stdin by specifying
.Ql Fl P-
instead.
.Pp
Windows systems are limited to a maximum payload size of 1358 bytes for
RIP packets.
.It Fl r Ar DOMAIN
Specify the RIP routing domain within the RIP header.  A routing domain
value of 0 is used for RIP version 1.  For RIP version 2 the routing
domain field is used to identify a unique RIP process on the host or
router.
.It Fl R Ar TAG
Specify the RIP route tag within the RIP header.  The RIP route tag
value is used to support exterior gatetway protocols.  A route tag value
of 0 is used for RIP version 1.  For RIP version 2 the route tag field
will contain the autonomous system (AS) number for exterior gateway
protocol (EGP) and border gateway protocol (BGP).  RIP version 2
preserves this value when a route is re-advertised.
.It Fl V Ar VER
Specify the RIP version within the RIP header.
.Sy NOTE:
Under normal conditions only versions 1 and 2 are valid.
.It Fl v
Display the injected packet in human readable form.  Use twice to see a
hexdump of the injected packet with printable ASCII characters on the
right.  Use three times for a hexdump without decoded ASCII.
.El
.Sh UDP OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl x Ar PORT
Specify the source port within the UDP header.
.It Fl y Ar PORT
Specify the destintion port within the UDP header.
.El
.Sh IP OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl D Ar ADDR
Specify the destination IP address within the IP header.
.It Fl F Ar OPT
Specify the fragmentation options in the IP header:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "-F offset" -compact -offset indent
.It Fl FD
don't fragment
.It Fl FM
more fragments
.It Fl FR
reserved flag
.It Fl F Ar offset
.El
.Pp
IP fragmentation options can be specified individually or combined into
a single argument to the
.Fl F
command line switch by separating the options with commas (eg.
.Fl FD,M )
or spaces (eg.
.Fl FM Ar 223 ) .
The IP fragmentation offset is a 13-bit field with valid values from 0
to 8189.  Don't fragment (DF), more fragments (MF) and the reserved flag
(RESERVED or RB) are 1-bit fields.
.Pp
.Sy NOTE:
Under normal conditions, the reserved flag is unset.
.It Fl I Ar ID
Specify the IP ID within the IP header.
.It Fl O Ar FILE
This will cause
.Nm
to use the specified IP options file as the options when building the IP
header for the injected packet.  IP options can be up to 40 bytes in
length.  The IP options file must be created manually based upon the
desired options.  IP options can also be read from stdin by specifying
.Fl O-
instead.
.It Fl S Ar ADDR
Specify the source IP address within the IP header.
.It Fl t Ar TOS
Specify the IP type of service (TOS) within the IP header.  Valid type
of service values:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width 24 -offset indent -compact
.It 2
Minimize monetary cost
.It 4
Maximize reliability
.It 8
Maximize throughput
.It 24
Minimize delay
.El
.Pp
.Sy NOTE:
Under normal conditions, only one type of service is set within a
packet.  To specify multiple types, specify the sum of the desired
values as the type of service.
.It Fl T Ar TTL
Specify the IP time-to-live (TTL) in the IP header.
.El
.Sh DATA LINK OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl d Ar IFNAME
Specify the name (for UNIX-like systems) or the number (for Windows
systems) of the
.Ar IFNAME
to use (eg. fxp0, eth0, hme0, 1).
.It Fl H Ar MAC
Specify the source
.Ar MAC
address,
.Ar ( XX:XX:XX:XX:XX:XX ) .
.It Fl M Ar MAC
Specify the destination
.Ar MAC
address,
.Ar ( XX:XX:XX:XX:XX:XX ) .
.It Fl Z
Lists the available network interfaces by number for use in link-layer
injection.
.Pp
.Sy NOTE:
This feature is only relevant to Windows systems.
.El
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Nm
returns 0 on a successful exit, 1 if it exits on an error.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr nemesis-arp 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-dhcp 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-dns 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-ethernet 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-icmp 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-igmp 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-ip 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-ospf 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-tcp 1 .
.Xr nemesis-udp 1 ,
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Mark Grimes Aq Mt mark@stateful.net
and
.An Jeff Nathan Aq Mt jeff@snort.org
.Sh BUGS
Please report at
.Lk https://github.com/libnet/nemesis/issues
