.\" THE NEMESIS PROJECT
.\" Copyright (C) 2002, 2003 Jeff Nathan <jeff@snort.org>
.\" Copyright (C) 2019 Joachim Nilsson <troglobit@gmail.com>
.\"
.Dd Dec 12, 2019
.Dt nemesis-ip 1 USM
.Sh NAME
.Nm nemesis-ip
.Nd IP Protocol (The Nemesis Project)
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl vZ?
.Op Fl c Ar COUNT
.Op Fl d Ar IFNAME
.Op Fl D Ar ADDR
.Op Fl F Ar OPT
.Op Fl H Ar MAC
.Op Fl I Ar ID
.Op Fl i Ar INTERVAL
.Op Fl M Ar MAC
.Op Fl O Ar FILE
.Op Fl p Ar PROTO
.Op Fl P Ar FILE
.Op Fl S Ar ADDR
.Op Fl t Ar TOS
.Op Fl T Ar TTL
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm nemesis
is designed to be a command line-based, portable human IP stack for UNIX-like 
and Windows systems.  The suite is broken down by protocol, and should allow 
for useful scripting of injected packets from simple shell scripts. 
.Pp
.Nm
provides an interface to craft and inject IP packets allowing the user to 
inject an entirely arbitrary IP packet.
.Sh GENERAL OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl c Ar COUNT
Number of packets to send, default: 1.
.It Fl i Ar INTERVAL
Seconds between repeatedly sent packets, only available if
.Fl c
is given.
.It Fl v
Display the injected packet in human readable form.  Use twice to see a
hexdump of the injected packet with printable ASCII characters on the
right.  Use three times for a hexdump without decoded ASCII.
.El
.Sh IP OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl D Ar ADDR
Specify the destination IP address within the IP header.
.It Fl F Ar OPT
Specify the fragmentation options in the IP header:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "-F offset" -compact -offset indent
.It Fl FD
don't fragment
.It Fl FM
more fragments
.It Fl FR
reserved flag
.It Fl F Ar offset
.El
.Pp
IP fragmentation options can be specified individually or combined into
a single argument to the
.Fl F
command line switch by separating the options with commas (eg.
.Fl FD,M )
or spaces (eg.
.Fl FM Ar 223 ) .
The IP fragmentation offset is a 13-bit field with valid values from 0
to 8189.  Don't fragment (DF), more fragments (MF) and the reserved flag
(RESERVED or RB) are 1-bit fields.
.Pp
.Sy NOTE:
Under normal conditions, the reserved flag is unset.
.It Fl I Ar ID
Specify the IP ID within the IP header.
.It Fl O Ar FILE
This will cause
.Nm
to use the specified IP options file as the options when building the IP
header for the injected packet.  IP options can be up to 40 bytes in
length.  The IP options file must be created manually based upon the
desired options.  IP options can also be read from stdin by specifying
.Fl O-
instead.
.It Fl p PROTO
Specify the IP protocol number as an integer within the IP header.
Valid IP protocol numbers include:
.\" 
.\" stolen from the OpenBSD project's /etc/protocols
.\"
.Bl -column "Code" "Name    " "Description" -offset indent
.It Sy "Code" Ta Sy "Name" Ta Sy "Description"
.It 0    Ta  IP           Ta pseudo protocol number
.It 1    Ta  ICMP         Ta internet control message protocol
.It 2    Ta  IGMP         Ta Internet Group Management
.It 3    Ta  GGP          Ta gateway-gateway protocol
.It 4    Ta  IP-ENCAP     Ta IP encapsulated in IP (officially Qq IP )
.It 5    Ta  ST           Ta ST datagram mode
.It 6    Ta  TCP          Ta transmission control protocol
.It 7    Ta  UCL          Ta UCL
.It 8    Ta  EGP          Ta exterior gateway protocol
.It 9    Ta  IGP          Ta any private interior gateway
.It 10   Ta  BBN-RCC-MON  Ta BBN RCC Monitoring
.It 11   Ta  NVP-II       Ta Network Voice Protocol
.It 12   Ta  PUP          Ta PARC universal packet protocol
.It 13   Ta  ARGUS        Ta ARGUS
.It 14   Ta  EMCON        Ta EMCON
.It 15   Ta  XNET         Ta Cross Net Debugger
.It 16   Ta  CHAOS        Ta Chaos
.It 17   Ta  UDP          Ta user datagram protocol
.It 18   Ta  MUX          Ta Multiplexing
.It 19   Ta  DCN-MEAS     Ta DCN Measurement Subsystems
.It 20   Ta  HMP          Ta host monitoring protocol
.It 21   Ta  PRM          Ta Packet Radio Measurement
.It 22   Ta  XNS-IDP      Ta Xerox NS IDP
.It 23   Ta  TRUNK-1      Ta Trunk-1
.It 24   Ta  TRUNK-2      Ta Trunk-2
.It 25   Ta  LEAF-1       Ta Leaf-1
.It 26   Ta  LEAF-2       Ta Leaf-2
.It 27   Ta  RDP          Ta "reliable datagram" protocol
.It 28   Ta  IRTP         Ta Internet Reliable Transaction
.It 29   Ta  ISO-TP4      Ta ISO Transport Protocol class 4
.It 30   Ta  NETBLT       Ta Bulk Data Transfer Protocol
.It 31   Ta  MFE-NSP      Ta MFE Network Services Protocol
.It 32   Ta  MERIT-INP    Ta MERIT Internodal Protocol
.It 33   Ta  SEP          Ta Sequential Exchange Protocol
.It 34   Ta  3PC          Ta Third Party Connect Protocol
.It 35   Ta  IDPR         Ta Inter-Domain Policy Routing Protocol
.It 36   Ta  XTP          Ta Xpress Transfer Protocol
.It 37   Ta  DDP          Ta Datagram Delivery Protocol
.It 38   Ta  IDPR-CMTP    Ta IDPR Control Message Transport Protocol
.It 39   Ta  IDPR-CMTP    Ta IDPR Control Message Transport
.It 40   Ta  IL           Ta IL Transport Protocol
.It 41   Ta  IPv6         Ta Internet Protocol version 6
.It 42   Ta  SDRP         Ta Source Demand Routing Protocol
.It 43   Ta  SIP-SR       Ta SIP Source Route
.It 44   Ta  SIP-FRAG     Ta SIP Fragment
.It 45   Ta  IDRP         Ta Inter-Domain Routing Protocol
.It 46   Ta  RSVP         Ta Reservation Protocol
.It 47   Ta  GRE          Ta General Routing Encapsulation
.It 48   Ta  MHRP         Ta Mobile Host Routing Protocol
.It 49   Ta  BNA          Ta BNA
.It 50   Ta  IPSEC-ESP    Ta Encap Security Payload
.It 51   Ta  IPSEC-AH     Ta Authentication Header
.It 52   Ta  I-NLSP       Ta Integrated Net Layer Security TUBA
.It 53   Ta  SWIPE        Ta IP with Encryption
.It 54   Ta  NHRP         Ta NBMA Next Hop Resolution Protocol
.It 55   Ta  MOBILEIP     Ta MobileIP encapsulation
.It 57   Ta  SKIP         Ta SKIP
.It 58   Ta  IPv6-ICMP    Ta ICMP for IPv6
.It 59   Ta  IPv6-NoNxt   Ta No Next Header for IPv6
.It 60   Ta  IPv6-Opts    Ta Destination Options for IPv6
.It 61   Ta  any          Ta host internal protocol
.It 62   Ta  CFTP         Ta CFTP
.It 63   Ta  any          Ta local network
.It 64   Ta  SAT-EXPAK    Ta SATNET and Backroom EXPAK
.It 65   Ta  KRYPTOLAN    Ta Kryptolan
.It 66   Ta  RVD          Ta MIT Remote Virtual Disk Protocol
.It 67   Ta  IPPC         Ta Internet Pluribus Packet Core
.It 68   Ta  any          Ta distributed file system
.It 69   Ta  SAT-MON      Ta SATNET Monitoring
.It 70   Ta  VISA         Ta VISA Protocol
.It 71   Ta  IPCV         Ta Internet Packet Core Utility
.It 72   Ta  CPNX         Ta Computer Protocol Network Executive
.It 73   Ta  CPHB         Ta Computer Protocol Heart Beat
.It 74   Ta  WSN          Ta Wang Span Network
.It 75   Ta  PVP          Ta Packet Video Protocol
.It 76   Ta  BR-SAT-MON   Ta Backroom SATNET Monitoring
.It 77   Ta  SUN-ND       Ta SUN ND PROTOCOL-Temporary
.It 78   Ta  WB-MON       Ta WIDEBAND Monitoring
.It 79   Ta  WB-EXPAK     Ta WIDEBAND EXPAK
.It 80   Ta  ISO-IP       Ta ISO Internet Protocol
.It 81   Ta  VMTP         Ta Versatile Message Transport
.It 82   Ta  SECURE-VMTP  Ta SECURE-VMTP
.It 83   Ta  VINES        Ta VINES
.It 84   Ta  TTP          Ta TTP
.It 85   Ta  NSFNET-IGP   Ta NSFNET-IGP
.It 86   Ta  DGP          Ta Dissimilar Gateway Protocol
.It 87   Ta  TCF          Ta TCF
.It 88   Ta  IGRP         Ta IGRP
.It 89   Ta  OSPFIGP      Ta Open Shortest Path First IGP
.It 90   Ta  Sprite-RPC   Ta Sprite RPC Protocol
.It 91   Ta  LARP         Ta Locus Address Resolution Protocol
.It 92   Ta  MTP          Ta Multicast Transport Protocol
.It 93   Ta  AX.25        Ta AX.25 Frames
.It 94   Ta  IPIP         Ta Yet Another IP encapsulation
.It 95   Ta  MICP         Ta Mobile Internetworking Control Protocol
.It 96   Ta  SCC-SP       Ta Semaphore Communications Sec. Protocol
.It 97   Ta  ETHERIP      Ta Ethernet-within-IP Encapsulation
.It 98   Ta  ENCAP        Ta Yet Another IP encapsulation
.It 99   Ta  any          Ta private encryption scheme
.It 100  Ta  GMTP         Ta GMTP
.It 103  Ta  PIM          Ta Protocol Independent Multicast
.It 108  Ta  IPComp       Ta IP Payload Compression Protocol
.It 112  Ta  VRRP         Ta Virtual Router Redundancy Protocol
.It 255  Ta  Reserved     Ta Reserved
.El
.It Fl P Ar FILE
This will cause nemesis-ip to use the specified payload file as the
payload when injecting IP packets.  For packets injected using the raw
interface (where \-d is not used) the maximum payload size is 65475
bytes.  For packets injected using the link layer interface (where
.Fl d
IS used), the maximum payload size is 1440 bytes.  Payloads can also be
read from stdin by specifying
.Fl P-
instead.
.Pp
Windows systems are limited to a maximum payload size of 1440 bytes for IP
packets.
.Pp
The payload file can consist of any arbitrary data though it will be most
useful to create a payload resembling the structure of a packet type not
supported by nemesis.  Used in this manner, virtually any IP packet can
be injected.
.It Fl S Ar ADDR
Specify the source IP address within the IP header.
.It Fl t Ar TOS
Specify the IP type of service (TOS) within the IP header.  Valid type
of service values:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width 24 -offset indent -compact
.It 2
Minimize monetary cost
.It 4
Maximize reliability
.It 8
Maximize throughput
.It 24
Minimize delay
.El
.Pp
.Sy NOTE:
Under normal conditions, only one type of service is set within a
packet.  To specify multiple types, specify the sum of the desired
values as the type of service.
.It Fl T Ar TTL
Specify the IP time-to-live (TTL) in the IP header.
.El
.Sh DATA LINK OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl d Ar IFNAME
Specify the name (for UNIX-like systems) or the number (for Windows
systems) of the
.Ar IFNAME
to use (eg. fxp0, eth0, hme0, 1).
.It Fl H Ar MAC
Specify the source
.Ar MAC
address,
.Ar ( XX:XX:XX:XX:XX:XX ) .
.It Fl M Ar MAC
Specify the destination
.Ar MAC
address,
.Ar ( XX:XX:XX:XX:XX:XX ) .
.It Fl Z
Lists the available network interfaces by number for use in link-layer
injection.
.Pp
.Sy NOTE:
This feature is only relevant to Windows systems.
.El
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Nm
returns 0 on a successful exit, 1 if it exits on an error.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr nemesis-arp 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-dhcp 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-dns 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-ethernet 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-icmp 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-igmp 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-ospf 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-rip 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-tcp 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-udp 1 .
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Jeff Nathan Aq Mt jeff@snort.org
.Sh BUGS
Please report at
.Lk https://github.com/libnet/nemesis/issues
