.\" THE NEMESIS PROJECT
.\" Copyright (C) 1999, 2000 Mark Grimes <mark@stateful.net>
.\" Copyright (C) 2001 - 2003 Jeff Nathan <jeff@snort.org>
.\" Copyright (C) 2019 Joachim Nilsson <troglobit@gmail.com>
.\" 
.Dd Dec 15, 2019
.Dt nemesis-ospf 1 USM
.Sh NAME
.Nm nemesis-ospf
.Nd OSPF Protocol (The Nemesis Project)
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl vZ?
.Op Fl p Ar TYPE
.Op Fl N Ar ADDR
.Op Fl i Ar SEC
.Op Fl l Ar SEC
.Op Fl z Ar LEN
.Op Fl x Ar TYPE
.Op Fl B Ar NUM
.Op Fl P Ar FILE
.Op Fl L Ar ADDR
.Op Fl u Ar NUM
.Op Fl j Ar ADDR
.Op Fl k Ar DATA
.Op Fl y Ar TYPE
.Op Fl w Ar TOS
.Op Fl m Ar METRIC
.Op Fl f Ar ADDR
.Op Fl g Ar TAG
.Op Fl L Ar ADDR
.Op Fl n Ar MASK
.Op Fl h Ar ADDR
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm nemesis
is designed to be a command line-based, portable human IP stack for UNIX-like
and Windows systems.  The suite is broken down by protocol, and should allow
for useful scripting of injected packets from simple shell scripts.
.Pp
.Nm
provides an interface to craft and inject OSPF packets, allowing the the
user to specify any portion of an OSPF packet, as well as lower-lever IP
packet information.
.Sh OSPF Options
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl m Ar METRIC
OSPF Metric
.It Fl s Ar NUM
OSPF Sequence Number 
.It Fl r Ar ADDR
OSPF Advertising Router Address
.It Fl n Ar MASK
OSPF Netmask
.It Fl o Ar OPT
OSPF Options, 1 byte value
.It Fl R Ar ADDR
OSPF Source Router ID
.It Fl A Ar ADDR
OSPF Area ID, e.g. 0.0.0.1, default 0.0.0.0
.It Fl P Ar FILE
Filename to read for raw (HEX) OSPF packet payload, appended after
selected packet type.  I.e., can be used with
.Fl pU
to create multi LSA Link State Updates.
.It Fl v
Display the injected packet in human readable form.  Use twice to see a
hexdump of the injected package with printable ASCII characters on the
right.  Use three times for a hexdump without decoded ASCII.
.El
.Ss OSPF Packet Types
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl p Ar TYPE
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width -pUE -compact
.It Fl pH
Hello
.It Fl pD
Database Description
.It Fl pR
Link State Request
.It Fl pU
Link State Update
.It Fl pUR
Router Links Advertisement
.It Fl pUN
Network Links Advertisement
.It Fl pUS
IP Summary Links Advertisement
.It Fl pUE
AS External Link Advertisement
.El
.Pp
.El
.Ss OSPF HELLO options
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl N Ar ADDR
Neighbor Router Address
.It Fl i Ar SEC
Dead Router Interval, seconds
.It Fl P Ar SEC
OSPF Interval, seconds
.El
.Ss OSPF Database Description (DBD) options
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl z Ar LEN
OSPF Maximum Datagram Length
.It Fl x Ar TYPE
OSPF DBD Exchange Type
.El
.Ss OSPF Link State Update (LSU) options
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl B Ar NUM
Number of Link State Advertisements (LSAs) to broadcast
.It Fl P Ar FILE
RAW payload file with LSAs, in plain
.Fl pU
mode
.El
.Ss OSPF Router LSA options
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl L AR ADDR
Link State ID: Originating Router ID (IP address)
.It Fl u Ar NUM
Number of links, default 1
.It Fl j Ar ADDR
Link ID
.It Fl k Ar DATA
Link data
.It Fl y Ar TYPE
Link type, default 1
.It Fl w Ar TOS
Link TOS number, default 0
.It Fl m Ar METRIC
Link TOS (0) metric (2 bytes)
.El
.Ss OSPF Autonomous System External LSA options
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl f Ar ADDR
Forward Address
.It Fl g Ar TAG
External route tag
.El
.Ss OSPF Network LSA options
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl L Ar ADDR
Link State ID: Originating Router ID (IP address)
.It Fl n Ar MASK
Netmask
.It Fl h Ar ADDR
Attached Router (IP address)
.El
.Ss OSPF Summary LSA (IP Network) options
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl L Ar ADDR
Link State ID: Network route to summarize
.It Fl n Ar MASK
Netmask of route
.It Fl c Ar NUM
Cost of this route (4 bytes)
.El
.Ss Generic LSA options for LSR and LSU packets
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl G Ar LSA_Age
Link State Advertisement Age.
.It Fl L Ar ADDR
Link State ID, usually the Router ID of the originating router
.It Fl r Ar ADDR
Advertising Router Address
.It Fl s Ar NUM
Sequence Number
.It Fl n Ar MASK
Multi-purpose netmask
.El
.Sh IP OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl S Ar ADDR
Specify the source address within the IP header.
.It Fl D Ar ADDR
Specify the destination address within the IP header.  Defaults to the
link-local multicast address 224.0.0.5 (All OSPF Routers).
.It Fl F Ar OPT
Specify the IP header fragmentation options:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "-F offset" -compact -offset indent
.It Fl FD
don't fragment
.It Fl FM
more fragments
.It Fl FR
reserved flag
.It Fl F Ar offset
.El
.Pp
IP fragmentation options can be specified individually or combined into
a single argument to the
.Fl F
command line switch by separating the options with commas (eg.
.Fl FD,M )
or spaces (eg.
.Fl FM Ar 223 ) .
The IP fragmentation offset is a 13-bit field with valid values from 0
to 8189.  Don't fragment (DF), more fragments (MF) and the reserved flag
(RESERVED or RB) are 1-bit fields.
.Pp
.Sy NOTE:
Under normal conditions, the reserved flag is unset.
.It Fl I Ar ID
Specify the IP ID within the IP header.
.It Fl O Ar FILE
This will cause
.Nm
to use the specified IP options file as the options when building the IP
header for the injected packet.  IP options can be up to 40 bytes in
length.  The IP options file must be created manually based upon the
desired options.  IP options can also be read from stdin by specifying
.Fl O-
instead.
.It Fl S Ar ADDR
Specify the source IP address within the IP header.
.It Fl t Ar TOS
Specify the IP type of service (TOS) within the IP header.  Valid type
of service values:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width 24 -offset indent -compact
.It 2
Minimize monetary cost
.It 4
Maximize reliability
.It 8
Maximize throughput
.It 24
Minimize delay
.El
.Pp
.Sy NOTE:
Under normal conditions, only one type of service is set within a
packet.  To specify multiple types, specify the sum of the desired
values as the type of service.
.It Fl T Ar TTL
Specify the IP time-to-live (TTL) in the IP header.
.El
.Sh DATA LINK OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl d Ar IFNAME
Specify the name (for UNIX-like systems) or the number (for Windows
systems) of the
.Ar IFNAME
to use (eg. fxp0, eth0, hme0, 1).
.It Fl H Ar MAC
Specify the source
.Ar MAC
address,
.Ar ( XX:XX:XX:XX:XX:XX ) .
.It Fl M Ar MAC
Specify the destination
.Ar MAC
address,
.Ar ( XX:XX:XX:XX:XX:XX ) .
.It Fl Z
Lists the available network interfaces by number for use in link-layer
injection.
.Pp
.Sy NOTE:
This feature is only relevant to Windows systems.
.El
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Nm
returns 0 on a successful exit, 1 if it exits on an error.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr nemesis-arp 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-dhcp 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-dns 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-ethernet 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-icmp 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-igmp 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-ip 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-rip 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-tcp 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-udp 1 .
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Mark Grimes Aq Mt mark@stateful.net ,
.An Jeff Nathan Aq Mt jeff@snort.org
and
.An Joachim Nilsson Aq Mt troglobit@gmail.com
.Sh BUGS
Please report at
.Lk https://github.com/libnet/nemesis/issues
