.\" 
.\" $Id: nemesis-ethernet.1,v 1.1.1.1 2003/10/31 21:29:36 jnathan Exp $
.\" 
.\" THE NEMESIS PROJECT
.\" Copyright (C) 2002, 2003 Jeff Nathan <jeff@snort.org>
.\"
.TH NEMESIS-ETHERNET 1 "16 May 2003" 
.SH NAME
nemesis-ethernet \- Ethernet Protocol (The Nemesis Project)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nemesis-ethernet [-vZ?] [-d
.I Ethernet-device
.B ] [-H
.I source-MAC-address
.B ] [-M
.I destination-MAC-address
.B ] [-P
.I payload-file
.B ] [-T
.I Ethernet-type
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B The Nemesis Project
is designed to be a command line-based, portable human IP stack for UNIX-like 
and Windows systems.  The suite is broken down by protocol, and should allow 
for useful scripting of injected packets from simple shell scripts. 
.PP
.B nemesis-ethernet
provides an interface to craft and inject Ethernet frames allowing the user to 
inject an entirely arbitrary Ethernet frame.
.SH ETHERNET OPTIONS
.IP "-d Ethernet-device"
Specify the name (for UNIX-like systems) or the number (for Windows systems) 
of the
.I Ethernet-device
to use (eg. fxp0, eth0, hme0, 1).
.IP "-H source-MAC-address"
Specify the
.I source-MAC-address
(XX:XX:XX:XX:XX:XX).
.IP "-M destination-MAC-address"
Specify the
.I destintion-MAC-address
(XX:XX:XX:XX:XX:XX).
.IP "-P payload-file"
This will cause nemesis-ethernet to use the specified
.I payload-file
as the payload when injecting Ethernet frames.  The maximum payload size is 
1500 bytes in order to account for the maximum Ethernet frame size.  Payloads
can also be read from stdin by specifying '-P -'
instead of a payload-file.

The payload file can consist of any arbitrary data though it will be most useful
to create a payload resembling the structure of a packet type not supported by
nemesis.  Used in this manner, virtually any link layer frame can be injected. 
.IP "-T Ethernet-type"
Specify the
.I Ethernet-type
as an integer.  Valid Ethernet types include:

.in +.51
.nf
512   (PUP)
2048  (IP)
2054  (ARP)
32821 (RARP)
33024 (802.1q)
34525 (IPv6)
34915 (PPPOE discovery)
34916 (PPPOE session)
.fi
.in -.51
.IP "-v verbose-mode"
Display the injected packet in human readable form.  Use twice to see a hexdump
of the injected packet with printable ASCII characters on the right.  Use three 
times for a hexdump without decoded ASCII.
.IP "-Z list-network-interfaces"
Lists the available network interfaces by number for use in link-layer 
injection.

NOTE: This feature is only relevant to Windows systems.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Nemesis-ethernet returns 0 on a successful exit, 1 if it exits on an error.
.SH BUGS
Send concise and clearly written bug reports to jeff@snort.org
.SH "AUTHOR"
Jeff Nathan <jeff@snort.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR "nemesis-arp(1), nemesis-dns(1), nemesis-icmp(1), nemesis-igmp(1), "
.BR "nemesis-ip(1), nemesis-ospf(1), nemesis-rip(1), nemesis-tcp(1), "
.BE "nemesis-udp(1)"
