.\" THE NEMESIS PROJECT
.\" Copyright (C) 1999, 2000 Mark Grimes <mark@stateful.net>
.\" Copyright (C) 2001 - 2003 Jeff Nathan <jeff@snort.org>
.\" Copyright (C) 2019 Joachim Nilsson <troglobit@gmail.com>
.\"
.Dd Dec 6, 2019
.Dt nemesis-icmp 1 USM
.Sh NAME
.Nm nemesis-icmp
.Nd ICMP Protocol (The Nemesis Project)
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl vZ?
.Op Fl a Ar TIME
.Op Fl b Ar ADDR
.Op Fl B Ar ADDR
.Op Fl c Ar CODE
.Op Fl d Ar IFNAME
.Op Fl D Ar ADDR
.Op Fl e Ar ID
.Op Fl f Ar OFFSET
.Op Fl F Ar OPT
.Op Fl G Ar ADDR
.Op Fl H Ar MAC
.Op Fl i Ar TYPE
.Op Fl I Ar ID
.Op Fl j Ar TOS
.Op Fl J Ar TTL
.Op Fl l Ar FILE
.Op Fl m Ar MASK
.Op Fl M Ar MAC
.Op Fl o Ar TIME
.Op Fl O Ar FILE
.Op Fl p Ar PROTO
.Op Fl P Ar FILE
.Op Fl q Ar MODE
.Op Fl r Ar TIME
.Op Fl s Ar NUM
.Op Fl S Ar ADDR
.Op Fl t Ar TOS
.Op Fl T Ar TTL
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm nemesis
is designed to be a command line-based, portable human IP stack for UNIX-like 
and Windows systems.  The suite is broken down by protocol, and should allow 
for useful scripting of injected packets from simple shell scripts.
.Pp
.Nm
provides an interface to craft and inject ICMP packets allowing the user to
specify any portion of an ICMP packet as well as lower-level IP packet
information.
.Sh ICMP OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl c Ar CODE
Specify the ICMP code within the ICMP header.
.It Fl e Ar ID
Specify the ICMP ID within the ICMP header.
.It Fl G Ar ADDR
Specify the preferred gateway IP address for ICMP redirect injection.
.It Fl i Ar TYPE
Specify the ICMP type within the ICMP header.
.It Fl m Ar MASK
Specify the IP address mask for ICMP address mask packets.
.It Fl P Ar FILE
This will cause
.Nm
to use the specified payload file as the payload when injecting ICMP
packets.  For packets injected using the raw interface (where
.Fl d
is not used), the maximum payload size is 65387 bytes.  For packets
injected using the link layer interface (where
.Fl d
IS used), the maximum payload size is 1352 bytes.  Payloads can also be
read from stdin by specifying
.Fl P-
instead.
.Pp
Windows systems are limited to a maximum payload size of 1352 bytes for ICMP 
packets.
.It Fl q Ar MODE
Specify the ICMP injection mode to use when injecting.  Valid modes are:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width -qT -offset indent -compact
.It Fl qE
ICMP echo
.It Fl qM
ICMP address mask
.It Fl qU
ICMP unreachable
.It Fl qX
ICMP time exceeded
.It Fl qR
ICMP redirect
.It Fl qT
ICMP timestamp
.El
.Pp
Only one mode may be specified at a time.
.It Fl s Ar NUM
Specify the ICMP sequence number within the ICMP header.
.It Fl v
Display the injected packet in human readable form.  Use twice to see a hexdump
of the injected packet with printable ASCII characters on the right.  Use three 
times for a hexdump without decoded ASCII.
.El
.Sh ICMP TIMESTAMP OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl a Ar TIME
Specify the ICMP timestamp request reply transmit time (the time a reply
to an ICMP timestamp request was transmitted) within the ICMP timestamp
header.
.It Fl o Ar TIME
Specify the ICMP timestamp request transmit time (the time an ICMP
timestamp request was transmitted) within the ICMP timestamp header.
.It Fl r Ar TIME
Specify the ICMP timestamp request reply received time (the time a reply
to an ICMP timestamp request was received) within the ICMP timestamp
header.
.El
.Sh ICMP ORIGINAL DATAGRAM OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl b Ar ADDR
Specify the original destination IP address within an ICMP unreachable,
redirect or time exceeded packet.
.It Fl B Ar ADDR
Specify the original source IP address within an ICMP unreachable,
redirect or time exceeded packet.
.It Fl f Ar OPT
Specify the original IP fragmentation options within an ICMP
unreachable, redirect or time exceeded packet.  For more information,
see the
.Fl F
command line switch.
.It Fl j Ar TOS
Specify the original IP type of service (TOS) within an ICMP
unreachable, redirect or time exceeded packet.
.It Fl J Ar TTL
Specify the original IP time to live (TTL) within an ICMP unreachable,
redirect or time exceeded packet.
.It Fl l Ar FILE
This will cause
.Nm
to use the specified IP options file as the options when building the
original IP header for the injected ICMP unreachable, redirect or time
exceeded packet.  IP options can be up to 40 bytes in length.  The IP
options file must be created manually based upon the desired options.
IP options can also be read from stdin by specifying
.Fl O-
instead.
.It Fl p Ar PROTO
Specify the IP protocol within an ICMP unrechable, redirect or time
exceeded packet.
.El
.Sh IP OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl D Ar ADDR
Specify the destination IP address within the IP header.
.It Fl F Ar OPT
Specify the fragmentation options in the IP header:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "-F offset" -compact -offset indent
.It Fl FD
don't fragment
.It Fl FM
more fragments
.It Fl FR
reserved flag
.It Fl F Ar offset
.El
.Pp
IP fragmentation options can be specified individually or combined into
a single argument to the
.Fl F
command line switch by separating the options with commas (eg.
.Fl FD,M )
or spaces (eg.
.Fl FM Ar 223 ) .
The IP fragmentation offset is a 13-bit field with valid values from 0
to 8189.  Don't fragment (DF), more fragments (MF) and the reserved flag
(RESERVED or RB) are 1-bit fields.
.Pp
.Sy NOTE:
Under normal conditions, the reserved flag is unset.
.It Fl I Ar ID
Specify the IP ID within the IP header.
.It Fl O Ar FILE
This will cause
.Nm
to use the specified IP options file as the options when building the IP
header for the injected packet.  IP options can be up to 40 bytes in
length.  The IP options file must be created manually based upon the
desired options.  IP options can also be read from stdin by specifying
.Fl O-
instead.
.It Fl S Ar ADDR
Specify the source IP address within the IP header.
.It Fl t Ar TOS
Specify the IP type of service (TOS) within the IP header.  Valid type
of service values:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width 24 -offset indent -compact
.It 2
Minimize monetary cost
.It 4
Maximize reliability
.It 8
Maximize throughput
.It 24
Minimize delay
.El
.Pp
.Sy NOTE:
Under normal conditions, only one type of service is set within a
packet.  To specify multiple types, specify the sum of the desired
values as the type of service.
.It Fl T Ar TTL
Specify the IP time-to-live (TTL) in the IP header.
.El
.Sh DATA LINK OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl d Ar IFNAME
Specify the name (for UNIX-like systems) or the number (for Windows
systems) of the
.Ar IFNAME
to use (eg. fxp0, eth0, hme0, 1).
.It Fl H Ar MAC
Specify the source
.Ar MAC
address,
.Ar ( XX:XX:XX:XX:XX:XX ) .
.It Fl M Ar MAC
Specify the destination
.Ar MAC
address,
.Ar ( XX:XX:XX:XX:XX:XX ) .
.It Fl Z
Lists the available network interfaces by number for use in link-layer
injection.
.Pp
.Sy NOTE:
This feature is only relevant to Windows systems.
.El
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Nm
returns 0 on a successful exit, 1 if it exits on an error.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr nemesis-arp 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-dhcp 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-dns 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-ethernet 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-igmp 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-ip 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-ospf 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-rip 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-tcp 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-udp 1 .
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Mark Grimes Aq Mt mark@stateful.net
and
.An Jeff Nathan Aq Mt jeff@snort.org
.Sh BUGS
Please report at
.Lk https://github.com/libnet/nemesis/issues
