.\" THE NEMESIS PROJECT
.\" Copyright (C) 1999, 2000 , 2001 Mark Grimes <mark@stateful.net>
.\" Copyright (C) 2001 - 2003 Jeff Nathan <jeff@snort.org>
.\"
.TH NEMESIS-DHCP 1 "8 June 2019" 
.SH NAME
nemesis-dhcp \- DHCP Protocol (The Nemesis Project)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nemesis-dhcp [-vZ?] [-c
.I COUNT
.B ] [-i
.I INTERVAL
.B ] [-d
.I Ethernet-device
.B ] [-C
.I DHCP-client-address
.B ] [-D
.I destination-IP-address
.B ] [-f
.I TCP-flags
.B ] [-F
.I fragmentation-options
.B ] [-f
.I DHCP-flags
.B ] [-g
.I DHCP-gateway-address
.B ] [-h
.I DHCP-client-MAC-address
.B ] [-H
.I source-MAC-address
.B ] [-I
.I IP-ID
.B ] [-M
.I destination-MAC-address
.B ] [-o
.I DHCP-opcode
.B ] [-O
.I IP-options-file
.B ] [-P
.I DHCP-payload-file
.B ] [-s
.I DHCP-server-address
.B ] [-S
.I source-IP-address
.B ] [-t
.I IP-TOS
.B ] [-T
.I IP-TTL
.B ] [-x
.I UDP-source-port
.B ] [-y
.I UDP-destination-port
.B ] [-Y
.I DHCP-your-address
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B The Nemesis Project
is designed to be a command line-based, portable human IP stack for UNIX-like 
and Windows systems.  The suite is broken down by protocol, and should allow 
for useful scripting of injected packets from simple shell scripts. 
.PP
.B nemesis-dhcp
provides an interface to craft and inject DHCP packets allowing the user to 
specify any portion of a DHCP packet as well as lower-level IP and TCP/UDP 
packet information.

By default a DHCP Discover (client) message is created.  To successfully
send it out a network interface you must be root.
.SH GENERAL OPTIONS
.IP "-c COUNT"
Number of packets to send, default: 1.
.IP "-i INTERVAL"
Seconds between repeatedly sent packets, only available if '\-c' is given.
.IP "-v verbose-mode"
Display the injected packet in human readable form.  Use twice to see a hexdump
of the injected packet with printable ASCII characters on the right.  Use three
times for a hexdump without decoded ASCII.
.SH DHCP OPTIONS
.IP "-o DHCP-opcode"
BOOTP/DHCP opcode to send, default: 1 (request).
.IP "-f DHCP-flags"
Specify the
.I DHCP flags
within the DHCP header, default: 0x8000.
.IP "-g DHCP-gateway-address"
DHCP Gateway (relay agent) IP address.
.IP "-s DHCP-server-address"
DHCP server IP address.
.IP "-C DHCP-client-address"
DHCP client's IP address.
.IP "-Y DHCP-your-address"
Your IP address, the lease from the DHCP server.
.IP "-h DHCP-client-MAC-address"
Client's HW address, MAC.
.IP "-P payload-file"
This will cause nemesis-dhcp to use the specified
.I payload-file
as the payload when injecting DHCP packets.  For packets injected using
the raw interface (where \-d is not used), the maximum payload size is
65455 for DHCP packets.  For packets injected using the link layer
interface (where \-d IS used), the maximum payload size is 1420 bytes.
Payloads can also be read from stdin by specifying '\-P \-' instead of a
payload-file.

Windows systems are limited to a maximum payload size of 1420 bytes.

The payload file can consist of any arbitrary data though it will be
most useful to create a payload resembling the structure of the DHCP
packet specified using the command-line options.
.SH UDP OPTIONS
.IP "-x UDP-source-port"
Source Port of injected packet.
.IP "-y UDP-Destination-Port"
Target Port of injected packet.
.SH IP OPTIONS
.IP "-D destination-IP-address"
Specify the
.I destination-IP-address
within the IP header.
.IP "-F fragmentation-options (-F[D],[M],[R],[offset])"
Specify the
.I fragmentation options:

.in +.51
.nf
.I -FD (don't fragment)
.I -FM (more fragments)
.I -FR (reserved flag)
.I -F <offset>
.fi
.in -.51

within the IP header.  IP fragmentation options can be specified individually 
or combined into a single argument to the \-F command line switch by separating 
the options with commas (eg. '\-FD,M') or spaces (eg. '\-FM 223').  The IP 
fragmentation offset is a 13-bit field with valid values from 0 to 8189.  
Don't fragment (DF), more fragments (MF) and the reserved flag (RESERVED or RB) 
are 1-bit fields.  

NOTE: Under normal conditions, the reserved flag is unset.
.IP "-I IP-ID"
Specify the
.I IP-ID
within the IP header.
.IP "-O IP-options-file"
This will cause nemesis-dhcp to use the specified
.I IP-options-file
as the options when building the IP header for the injected packet.  IP 
options can be up to 40 bytes in length.  The IP options file must be created
manually based upon the desired options.  IP options can also be read from 
stdin by specifying '\-O \-' instead of an IP\-options\-file.
.IP "-S source-IP-address"
Specify the
.I source-IP-address
within the IP header.
.IP "-t IP-TOS"
Specify the
.I IP-type-of-service (TOS)
within the IP header.  Valid type of service values:

.in +.51
.nf
2  (Minimize monetary cost)
4  (Maximize reliability)
8  (Maximize throughput)
24 (Minimize delay)
.fi
.in -.51

NOTE: Under normal conditions, only one type of service is set within a 
packet.  To specify multiple types, specify the sum of the desired values as
the type of service.
.IP "-T IP-TTL"
Specify the
.I IP-time-to-live (TTL)
within the IP header.
.SH DATA LINK OPTIONS
.IP "-d Ethernet-device"
Specify the name (for UNIX-like systems) or the number (for Windows systems) 
of the
.I Ethernet-device
to use (eg. fxp0, eth0, hme0, 1).
.IP "-H source-MAC-address"
Specify the
.I source-MAC-address
(XX:XX:XX:XX:XX:XX).
.IP "-M destination-MAC-address"
Specify the
.I defination-MAC-address
(XX:XX:XX:XX:XX:XX).
.IP "-Z list-network-interfaces"
Lists the available network interfaces by number for use in link-layer 
injection.

NOTE: This feature is only relevant to Windows systems.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Nemesis-dhcp returns 0 on a successful exit, 1 if it exits on an error.
.SH BUGS
Please report at https://github.com/troglobit/nemesis/issues
.SH "AUTHOR"
Joachim Nilsson <troglobit@gmail.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR "nemesis-arp(1), nemesis-ethernet(1), nemesis-icmp(1), nemesis-igmp(1), "
.BR "nemesis-ip(1), nemesis-ospf(1), nemesis-rip(1), nemesis-tcp(1), "
.BR "nemesis-udp(1), nemesis-dns(1)"
