.\" THE NEMESIS PROJECT
.\" Copyright (C) 1999, 2000 Mark Grimes <mark@stateful.net>
.\" Copyright (C) 2001 - 2003 Jeff Nathan <jeff@snort.org>
.\" Copyright (C) 2019 Joachim Nilsson <troglobit@gmail.com>
.\"
.Dd Dec 16, 2019
.Dt nemesis-udp 1 USM
.Sh NAME
.Nm nemesis-udp
.Nd UDP Protocol (The Nemesis Project)
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl vZ?
.Op Fl d Ar IFNAME
.Op Fl c Ar COUNT
.Op Fl D Ar ADDR
.Op Fl F Ar OPT
.Op Fl H Ar MAC
.Op Fl I Ar ID
.Op Fl i Ar INTERVAL
.Op Fl M Ar MAC
.Op Fl O Ar FILE
.Op Fl P Ar FILE
.Op Fl S Ar ADDR
.Op Fl t Ar TOS
.Op Fl T Ar TTL
.Op Fl x Ar PORT
.Op Fl y Ar PORT
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm nemesis
is designed to be a command line-based, portable human IP stack for
UNIX-like and Windows systems.  The suite is broken down by protocol,
and should allow for useful scripting of injected packets from simple
shell scripts.
.Pp
.Nm
provides an interface to craft and inject UDP packets allowing the user
to specify any portion of a UDP packet as well as lower-level IP packet
information.
.Sh GENERAL OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl c Ar COUNT
Number of packets to send, default: 1.
.It Fl i Ar INTERVAL
Seconds between repeatedly sent packets, only available if
.Fl c
is given.
.It Fl v
Display the injected packet in human readable form.  Use twice to see a
hexdump of the injected packet with printable ASCII characters on the
right.  Use three times for a hexdump without decoded ASCII.
.El
.Sh UDP Options
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl P Ar FILE
This will cause
.Nm
to use the specified payload file as the payload when injecting UDP
packets.  For packets injected using the raw interface (where
.Fl d
is not used), the maximum payload size is 65415 bytes.  For packets
injected using the link layer interface (where
.Fl d
IS used), the maximum payload size is 1380 bytes.  Payloads can also be
read from stdin by specifying
.Ql Fl P-
instead.
.Pp
Windows systems are limited to a maximum payload size of 1380 bytes for
UDP packets.
.It Fl x Ar PORT
Specify the source port within the UDP header.
.It Fl y Ar PORT
Specify the destintion port within the UDP header.
.El
.Sh IP OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl D Ar ADDR
Specify the destination IP address within the IP header.
.It Fl F Ar OPT
Specify the fragmentation options in the IP header:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "-F offset" -compact -offset indent
.It Fl FD
don't fragment
.It Fl FM
more fragments
.It Fl FR
reserved flag
.It Fl F Ar offset
.El
.Pp
IP fragmentation options can be specified individually or combined into
a single argument to the
.Fl F
command line switch by separating the options with commas (eg.
.Fl FD,M )
or spaces (eg.
.Fl FM Ar 223 ) .
The IP fragmentation offset is a 13-bit field with valid values from 0
to 8189.  Don't fragment (DF), more fragments (MF) and the reserved flag
(RESERVED or RB) are 1-bit fields.
.Pp
.Sy NOTE:
Under normal conditions, the reserved flag is unset.
.It Fl I Ar ID
Specify the IP ID within the IP header.
.It Fl O Ar FILE
This will cause
.Nm
to use the specified IP options file as the options when building the IP
header for the injected packet.  IP options can be up to 40 bytes in
length.  The IP options file must be created manually based upon the
desired options.  IP options can also be read from stdin by specifying
.Fl O-
instead.
.It Fl S Ar ADDR
Specify the source IP address within the IP header.
.It Fl t Ar TOS
Specify the IP type of service (TOS) within the IP header.  Valid type
of service values:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width 24 -offset indent -compact
.It 2
Minimize monetary cost
.It 4
Maximize reliability
.It 8
Maximize throughput
.It 24
Minimize delay
.El
.Pp
.Sy NOTE:
Under normal conditions, only one type of service is set within a
packet.  To specify multiple types, specify the sum of the desired
values as the type of service.
.It Fl T Ar TTL
Specify the IP time-to-live (TTL) in the IP header.
.El
.Sh DATA LINK OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl d Ar IFNAME
Specify the name (for UNIX-like systems) or the number (for Windows
systems) of the
.Ar IFNAME
to use (eg. fxp0, eth0, hme0, 1).
.It Fl H Ar MAC
Specify the source
.Ar MAC
address,
.Ar ( XX:XX:XX:XX:XX:XX ) .
.It Fl M Ar MAC
Specify the destination
.Ar MAC
address,
.Ar ( XX:XX:XX:XX:XX:XX ) .
.It Fl Z
Lists the available network interfaces by number for use in link-layer
injection.
.Pp
.Sy NOTE:
This feature is only relevant to Windows systems.
.El
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Nm
returns 0 on a successful exit, 1 if it exits on an error.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr nemesis-arp 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-dhcp 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-dns 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-ethernet 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-icmp 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-igmp 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-ip 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-ospf 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-rip 1 ,
.Xr nemesis-tcp 1 .
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Mark Grimes Aq Mt mark@stateful.net
and
.An Jeff Nathan Aq Mt jeff@snort.org
.Sh BUGS
Please report at
.Lk https://github.com/libnet/nemesis/issues
